Verifying Website Domains (#1393)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/verifying-website-domains/index.md

## Verifying Website Domains

Verifying website domains for originality can be complicated during a time where the internet is constantly used for both good and bad. By using Python Shell and Windows PowerShell within a Windows environment, determining the credibility of a website domain name can be done.

This topic could interest individuals and/or groups who would like to verify domain names for its validity and credibility through coding.

> At the end of this tutorial, it is possible to have a good grasp on retrieving DNS (Domain Name System) information by coding in Python Shell, skills developed or refreshed in website API commands within Windows PowerShell, and a tighter hold on identifying the complexities of domain modifications in an ever-changing technical space.

Reviewer: This isn't very clear.

Website API commands?
To me, this implies you'll be interacting with a REST API which is not the case for this guide.

Author: I can clarify by shortening it.

I could just revise it to:
"At the end of this tutorial, it is possible to complete a complete a reverse DNS (Domain Name System) lookup using Python Shell and Windows PowerShell"

Would that make this portion clearer?

> At the end of this tutorial, it is possible to have a good grasp on retrieving DNS (Domain Name System) information by coding in Python Shell, skills developed or refreshed in website API commands within Windows PowerShell, and a tighter hold on identifying the complexities of domain modifications in an ever-changing technical space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of this tutorial, you will understand how to retrieve DNS (Domain Name System) information using the Python Shell,  run `curl` in the Windows PowerShell to crawl websites, and how to identify the complexities of domain modifications in an ever-changing technology space.
```

Most original websites will openly disclose this information as exemplified below.

Input:

```python
import whois
whois_info = whois.whois("massiveinsights.com")
print("Domain registrar:", whois_info.registrar)
print("WHOIS server:", whois_info.whois_server)
print("Domain creation date:", whois_info.creation_date)
print("Expiration date:", whois_info.expiration_date)
```
Output:

```python
Domain registrar: GoDaddy.com, LLC
WHOIS server: whois.godaddy.com
Domain creation date: 2012-06-04 23:22:58
Expiration date: 2021-06-04 23:22:58
```

_Screenshot_:

![whois-valid](/engineering-education/verifying-website-domains/whois-valid.jpg)

### Next up, Windows PowerShell 

_Make sure to right-click and select the `Run as Administrator` option before running PowerShell._

Windows PowerShell is structured differently. There are subcategorized features to select specific content in a website language. It is essential to select and include `.Content` at the end of the command.

As shown below, brackets are used to call a website with an API to sift through permissible website layers and must begin with `curl`.

Input:

```PowerShell
(curl host.io/careers.massiveinsights.works).Content

> ```

Reviewer: This career page does not exist https://host.io/massiveinsights.works

Author: Must have been a typo.
Corrected in the next commit.
It was properly typed in the screenshot and the output.

[http://host.io/careers-massiveinsights.works
](http://host.io/careers-massiveinsights.works
)

I'll be more careful about that in other articles.
